# i18n

See: [openshift console dynamic plugin i18n doc](https://github.com/openshift/console/tree/master/dynamic-demo-plugin#i18n).

You can translate messages in a forklift console plugin with react-i18next. The i18n namespace must match the name of the `ConsolePlugin` resource with the `plugin__` prefix to avoid naming conflicts. For example, the plugin uses the `plugin__forklift-console-plugin` namespace. You can use the `useTranslation` hook with this namespace as follows:

``` ts
conster Header: React.FC = () => {
  const { t } = useTranslation('plugin__forklift-console-plugin');
  return <h1>{t('Hello, World!')}</h1>;
};
```

We use a customized version of `useTranslation` that specifiy the plugin namespace:

```ts
// component file
import { useTranslation } from '@internal/utils/i18n';

// customized method using 'plugin__forklift-console-plugin' namespace.
const { t } = useTranslation();
t('Providers')

```

The plugin contains `console.openshift.io/use-i18n` annotation, which indicates whether the `ConsolePlugin` contains localization resources. If the annotation is set to "true", the localization resources from the i18n namespace named after the dynamic plugin, in this case `plugin__forklift-console-plugin`, are loaded. If the annotation is set to any other value or is missing on the `ConsolePlugin` resource, localization resources are not loaded.

For labels in `console-extensions.json`, you can use the format `%plugin__forklift-console-plugin~My Label%`. Console will replace the value with the message for the current language from the `plugin__forklift-console-plugin` namespace. For example:

``` json
  {
    "type": "console.navigation/section",
    "properties": {
      "id": "admin-demo-section",
      "perspective": "admin",
      "name": "%plugin__forklift-console-plugin~Forklift Plugin%"
    }
  }
```

Note that you will need to include a comment in a TypeScript file like the following for `i18next-parser` to add the message from `console-extensions.json` to your message catalog.

``` ts
// t('plugin__forklift-console-plugin~Demo Plugin')
```

See [/src/utils/i18n.ts](/src/utils/i18n.ts) for this comments.

Running `yarn i18n` updates the JSON files in the locales folder of the dynamic plugin when adding or changing messages.